 Tencent Hunyuan


HY-World 1.5: A Systematic Framework for Interactive World
Modeling with Real-Time Latency and Geometric Consistency
                                        Tencent Hunyuan*

                    https://3d.hunyuan.tencent.com/sceneTo3D
                    https://github.com/Tencent-Hunyuan/HY-WorldPlay

                                             Abstract
      While HunyuanWorld 1.0 is capable of generating immersive and traversable
      3D worlds, it relies on a lengthy offline generation process and lacks real-time
      interaction. HY-World 1.5 bridges this gap with WorldPlay, a streaming video
      diffusion model that enables real-time, interactive world modeling with long-term
      geometric consistency, resolving the trade-off between speed and memory that
      limits current methods. Our model draws power from four key designs. 1) We
      use a Dual Action Representation to enable robust action control in response to
      the user’s keyboard and mouse inputs. 2) To enforce long-term consistency, our
      Reconstituted Context Memory dynamically rebuilds context from past frames and
      uses temporal reframing to keep geometrically important but long-past frames ac-
      cessible, effectively alleviating memory attenuation. 3) We design WorldCompass,
      a novel Reinforcement Learning (RL) post-training framework designed to directly
      improve the action-following and visual quality of the long-horizon, autoregressive
      video model. 4) We also propose Context Forcing, a novel distillation method
      designed for memory-aware models. Aligning memory context between the teacher
      and student preserves the student’s capacity to use long-range information, en-
      abling real-time speeds while preventing error drift. Taken together, HY-World 1.5
      generates long-horizon streaming video at 24 FPS with superior consistency, com-
      paring favorably with existing techniques. Our model shows strong generalization
      across diverse scenes, supporting first-person and third-person perspectives in both
      real-world and stylized environments, enabling versatile applications such as 3D
      reconstruction, promptable events, and infinite world extension.




 ∗ HunyuanWorld team contributors are listed in the end of report.


                                                       1
Contents

1   Introduction                                                                                      3

2   Data                                                                                              5
    2.1    Data Curation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
    2.2    Data Filter and Enhancement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
    2.3    Metadata Annotation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6

3   Model Pre-Training: Autoregressive Generative Model                                               6
    3.1    Bidirectional Diffusion Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
    3.2    Chunk-wise Autoregressive Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7

4   Model Middle-Training: Control and Memory Integration                                             8
    4.1    Dual Action Representation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
    4.2    Reconstituted Context Memory for Consistency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8

5   Model Post-Training I: Efficient Reinforcement Learning                                           9
    5.1    Challenges of Reinforcement Learning for World Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
    5.2    WorldCompass Framework Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9

6   Model Post-Training II: Context Forcing Distillation                                              9
    6.1    The Distribution Matching Challenge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
    6.2    Context Forcing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10

7   Model Inference: Play with the World                                                             11
    7.1    Acceleration and Engineering Optimization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
    7.2    Go Beyond Action Control: Text-Based Event Triggering . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12

8   Model Evaluation                                                                                 12
    8.1    Main Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
    8.2    Applications and More Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15

9   Conclusion                                                                                       16

Contributors                                                                                         18




                                                        2
1   Introduction

                “Hold Infinity in the Palm of Your Hand, and Eternity in an Hour”
                                                                         — William Blake

World models are driving a pivotal shift in computational intelligence, moving beyond language-
centric tasks towards visual and spatial reasoning. By simulating dynamic 3D environments, these
models empower agents to perceive and interact with complex surroundings, opening up new pos-
sibilities for embodied robotics and game development. While HunyuanWorld 1.0 [9] is capable
of generating immersive 3D worlds, it relies on a lengthy offline generation process and lacks the
capacity for real-time interaction.
At the forefront is real-time interactive world modeling, which aims at autoregressively predicting
future frames to deliver instant visual feedback in response to every user’s keyboard commands.
Despite significant progress, a fundamental challenge persists: how to simultaneously achieve real-
time generation (speed) and long-term geometric consistency (memory) in interactive world modeling.
One class of methods [4, 20, 6] prioritizes speed with distillation but neglects memory, resulting
in inconsistency where scenes change upon revisit. The other class preserves consistency with
explicit [14, 22] or implicit [29, 32] memory, but complex memory makes distillation non-trivial.
As summarized in Tab. 1, the simultaneous achievement of both low latency and high consistency
remains an open problem.
In HY-World 1.5, we develop WorldPlay [24], a real-time and long-term consistent world model for
general scenes. We consider this problem as a next chunk (16 frames) prediction task for generating
streaming videos conditioned on action from users. Building upon autoregressive diffusion models,
WorldPlay draws power from the model’s four key ingredients below.
The first is Dual Action Representation [24] for control over agent and camera movement. Previous
works [4, 20, 6] typically rely on discrete keyboard inputs (e.g., W, A, S, D) as action signals,
which afford plausible, scale-adaptive movement but suffer from ambiguity for memory retrieval
that requires revisiting exact locations. Conversely, continuous camera poses (R, T ) provide spatial
locations but cause training instability due to scene scale variance in training data. To combine
the best of both worlds, we convert action signals into discrete keys and continuous camera poses,
achieving robust control and accurate location caching.
The second key design is Reconstituted Context Memory [24] for maintaining long-term geometric
consistency. We actively reconstitute the memory through a two-stage process, moving beyond
simple retrieval [32, 29]. It first dynamically reconstitutes memory context by querying past frames
based on spatial and temporal proximity. To overcome the long-range decay (the fading influence of
distant tokens in Transformers [23]), we further propose temporal reframing to rewrite positional
embeddings of these retrieved frames. This operation effectively “pulls" geometrically important but
long-past memories closer in time, forcing the model to treat them as recent. This process keeps the
influence of relevant long-range information preserved, enabling robust free extrapolation with strong
geometric consistency.
The third key contribution is WorldCompass RL Framework [27], designed to further improve
complex action following accuracy and visual quality. While RL is recognized as a promising
approach for explicitly and purposefully improving a model’s capabilities, its application to world
modeling poses unique challenges due to the inherent long-horizon, autoregressive, and interactive
nature of world modeling. We therefore propose the WorldCompass framework, which uses reward
functions to "steer" the model’s exploratory behavior. This framework includes a novel clip-level
rollout strategy to mitigate exposure bias and enhance efficiency, and complementary reward functions
to suppress reward hacking. This RL stage provides the essential explicit training signal, which
significantly enhances our model’s performance under various challenging scenarios.
The final key ingredient is Context Forcing [24], a novel distillation method designed for memory-
aware models to enable real-time generation. Existing distillation methods [2, 8, 31] fail to keep
long-term memory as there is a fundamental distribution mismatch: training a memory-aware
autoregressive student to mimic a memory-less bidirectional teacher. Even when augmenting teacher
with memory, mismatched memory context will cause distribution diverge. We solve this by aligning
the memory context for teacher and student during distillation. This alignment facilitates effective


                                                      3
a) Real World                                     W                       W                        S                           S




 b) Stylized World




 c) Third-Person                                      W                       D                        A                            S

                                                                                                                 Point Cloud




 d) 3D Reconstruction
                                                                                    Smoke Spread




 e) Promptable Event                                  W                       W                        W                           W



Figure 1: WorldPlay is a real-time, interactive world model that achieves long-term geometric
consistency. It responds to user navigation commands in a streaming fashion and maintains scene
coherence when revisiting (shown in red boxes). Our model shows remarkable generalization across
diverse scenes, including (a) real world, (b) stylized world, and (c) third-person agent scenarios.
Furthermore, it supports (d) 3D scene generation via reconstruction and (e) promptable event triggered
by text-based manipulation.


distribution matching, enabling real-time speed without eroding the memory while alleviating error
accumulation over long sequences.
Taken together, we achieve interactive world generation at 24 FPS while maintaining long-term
geometric consistency. The model is built on a curated dataset of 320K videos with a custom
rendering and processing platform. As shown in Fig. 1, our model shows superior generation quality
and remarkable generalization across diverse scenes, including first- and third-person real and stylized
worlds, and supports applications ranging from 3D reconstruction and promptable events.

                                    Matrix-Game
                        Oasis [4]                     GameGenX [1] GameCraft [12] WorldMem [29]        VMem [14]           Ours
                                       2.0 [6]
                                                                                                                       Continuous +
 Action Space           Discrete      Discrete            Discrete   Continuous      Discrete          Continuous
                                                                                                                         Discrete
   Real-time               ✔            ✔                    ✗            ✗             ✗                   ✗                  ✔
  Long-term
                           ✗             ✗                   ✗            ✗             ✔                  ✔                   ✔
  Consistency
 Long-Horizon              ✗            ✔                   ✔             ✗             ✗                   ✗                  ✔
    Domain              Minecraft     General             General     General       Minecraft          Static Scene       General

                            Table 1: Comparison with recent interactive world models.

Report Organization. This technical report is organized as follows: Sec. 2 describes our data
processing pipeline. Sec. 3 introduces the pre-training stage for constructing an autoregressive
generative model. Sec. 4 introduces our dual action representation and reconstituted context memory
for action control and long-term consistency. Sec. 5 covers our reinforcement learning post-training,
which leverages 3D feedback and visual feedback to further enhance the model. Sec. 6 details the
context forcing post-training, which achieves real-time latency and mitigates exposure bias while
preserving long-term consistency. Sec. 7 covers the engineering and deployment optimization for
real-time streaming inference. Sec. 8 presents comprehensive experimental results and ablation
studies. Fig. 2 provides an overview of HY-World 1.5.


                                                                      4
             Data                                                      Training




                    Filtering &    Structured                          Pre-       Middle-      RL Post-
                                                                                                              Distillation
                   Rebalancing     Annotation                        Training     Training     Training
       Database



           Inference                            Real-Time Streaming Generation

                                                                                               (optional)
                                          Streaming               Streaming
                                                                                                 3D/4D
                                         DiT Denoising           VAE Decoding
                                                                                             Reconstruction
            User              ×𝑁                                                    ×𝑁                          3D Worlds


                                       Caption/ Prompt
                       or                Engineering
           Image            Text


                                        Figure 2: Overview of HY-World 1.5.


2     Data

HY-World 1.5 relies on a comprehensive training dataset, comprising 320K curated video clips, with
consideration for data diversity, quality, and annotation accuracy. Fig. 3 illustrates the overview of
our data system.

2.1   Data Curation

Our training dataset is strategically composed of four distinct categories, each addressing different
aspects of interactive world modeling while contributing to the overall diversity and comprehensive-
ness of the training corpus. The largest component, comprising 170K clips (53.125%), consists of
recordings of AAA games captured from both first-person and third-person perspectives. These video
clips offer rich, interactive scenarios featuring complex agent behaviors, physics simulations, and
diverse environmental interactions.
Real-world 3D contains 60K clips (18.75%) and is derived from the DL3DV dataset [16], providing
realistic appearances and accurate scene structures. Specifically, we first perform 3D reconstruc-
tion [10] for each original video. Then, we carefully design camera trajectories to simulate interactive
navigation patterns, ensuring comprehensive coverage of different movements and rotations that are
essential for developing robust action control.
Synthetic 4D comprises 50K clips (15.625%) rendered using Unreal Engine. This synthetic data
provides dynamic object interactions and controllable lighting, further enriching the diversity of our
dataset. Furthermore, it offers precise ground truth annotations, which are often difficult to obtain in
real-world data and are particularly valuable for learning action patterns.
The final category, sourced from the Sekai dataset [15], includes 40K clips (12.5%) focusing on
natural, real-world videos with dynamic motion and interactions. We applied rigorous filtering criteria
to ensure high visual quality, stable camera movements, and meaningful interactive elements. These
clips provide essential priors for realistic motion patterns and object behaviors that occur in natural
environments, grounding our model’s capabilities in real-world environments.

2.2   Data Filter and Enhancement

The raw data from these diverse sources undergoes a sophisticated multi-stage data filtering pipeline
designed to ensure visual quality and motion consistency. We first implement an automated visual
quality assessment system using tools such as video aesthetics scoring, watermark and UI detection,
and compression artifact detection, where video clips that fail to meet minimum quality requirements
are filtered out.


                                                                          5
       (320K Clips)
         Curation
           Data
                          AAA Games                  Real-world 3D                  Synthetic 4D                     Real-world Video
                          170K (53.1%)             DL3DV - 60K (18.7%)         UE Rendered - 50K (15.6%)             Sekai - 40K (12.5%)
                          1st/3rd Person           3DGS Reconstruction           Precise Ground Truth                 Dynamic Motion




                      Visual Quality Assessment            Motion Consistency                               Diversity & Alignment
      Enhancement
       Filter and
          Data



                      • Watermark & UI Detection           • Optical Flow Analysis                          • Dynamic framerates
                      • Compression Artifacts              • VIPE Trajectory Validation
                      • Low Quality Filtering              • Erratic Motion Removal




                                                         Multi-Modal Metadata Annotation
         Annotation
          Metadata




                         Text Annotation                     Action Signals                             Camera Poses
                         • Hunyuan Video Caption Model       • Movement Command                         • Continuous Extrinsics (SfM)
                         • Rich Descriptive Labels           • View Rotation                            • Rotation & Translation




                                                    Figure 3: Data overview.


Motion consistency analysis is another crucial component that ensures the dataset exhibits physically
realistic movement behaviors, which is essential for developing stable interactive responses. Specif-
ically, we first analyze the motion intensity using optical flow to filter out video clips with severe
camera shake. Then, we validate the smoothness and plausibility of camera trajectories for each
video clip, filtering out abrupt or impossible camera movements that could negatively impact training.
This systematic filtering pipeline ensures data quality and promotes faster model convergence.
We further enhance the content quality and diversity of the training dataset. Specifically, we boost
diversity by leveraging dynamic frame rates, thereby ensuring comprehensive coverage across
scenarios involving various playback speeds, camera motions, and frame rate configurations.

2.3   Metadata Annotation

The metadata annotation process transforms video clips into training samples with rich annotations.
We leverage the caption model from HunyuanVideo 1.5 [25] to produce structural text annotations
for each video clip. Continuous camera poses are estimated using VIPE [7] or directly extracted
from Unreal Engine and the 3D rendering pipeline. Discrete action signals are then derived from
these camera trajectories, categorizing actions into movement commands and view rotations. For
recordings from AAA games, discrete action signals are directly recorded.


3     Model Pre-Training: Autoregressive Generative Model

3.1   Bidirectional Diffusion Model

Current bidirectional video diffusion models [25, 26], through training on web-scale datasets, have
acquired the ability to perceive, model, and manipulate the real world, enabling them to generate
realistic videos. They typically employ a 3D variational autoencoder (VAE) [11] that compresses
videos into a compact latent space. Subsequently, Diffusion Transformer (DiT) [21] is used for
generative modeling in this latent space. Each DiT block consists of 3D self-attention, cross-attention
for conditional inputs [26] (or dual-stream attention [25]), and feed-forward networks. These models
Nθ parameterized by θ are trained using the flow matching objective [17], which is formulated as:
                                                                                                    2
                                           LFM (θ) = Ek,z0 ,z1 Nθ (zk , k) − vk                         ,                                  (1)

where z0 represents the video latent encoded by the 3D VAE, z1 ∼ N (0, I) denotes the Gaussian
noise, zk represents the noisy latent at diffusion timestep k, and vk is the target velocity.


                                                                           6
Figure 4: WorldPlay Architecture. Given a single image or text prompt to describe a world, our
model performs a next chunk (16 video frames) prediction task to generate future videos conditioned
on action from users. For the generation of each chunk, we dynamically reconstitute context memory
from past chunks to enforce long-term temporal and geometric consistency.


3.2   Chunk-wise Autoregressive Generation

The bidirectional video diffusion model is a non-causal architecture, which limits its ability for infinite-
length interactive generation. However, the goal for WorldPlay is to construct a real-time interactive
world model with long-term geometric consistency detailed as Nθ (xt |Ot−1 , At−1 , at , c), which can
generate next chunk xt (a chunk is 16 frames) based on past observations Ot−1 = {xt−1 , ..., x0 },
action sequences At−1 = {at−1 , ..., a0 }, and current action at . Here, c is a text prompt or image that
describes the world. For simplicity of notation, we omit A, a, c in the following sections.
To enable real-time interactive long-horizon generation, we convert the bidirectional video model to a
chunk-wise autoregressive generative model. We divide video sequences into chunks of 4 latents,
corresponding to 16 frames. Inspired by Diffusion Forcing [2], during training, we add different
noise levels for each chunk and modify bidirectional self-attention to block causal attention. The
training loss is similar to Eq. 1. This trained autoregressive model establishes the foundational
capabilities needed for interactive world modeling, serving as the base for subsequent action and
memory integration.




Figure 5: Our DiT architecture. We use the dual action representation, including discrete and
continuous control signals, to enable precise action control.



                                                         7
4     Model Middle-Training: Control and Memory Integration
This middle-training stage integrates action control and memory mechanisms into the autoregressive
generative model to achieve accurate action control and long-term geometric consistency. We first
introduce a dual-action representation for action control, followed by our reconstituted context
memory, which maintains consistency when revisiting previously seen areas.

4.1   Dual Action Representation

Using only discrete action signals [4, 29, 6, 32] enables learning physically plausible movements
across scenes with diverse scales (e.g., extremely large and small scenes). However, they struggle to
provide precise previous locations for spatial memory retrieval. In contrast, continuous camera poses
(rotation and translation matrix) provide accurate spatial locations that facilitate precise control and
memory retrieval. However, training only with camera poses faces challenges in training stability due
to the scale variance in the training data. As shown in Fig. 5, we introduce a dual action representation
that combines the best of both discrete and continuous control signals.
For discrete actions (keyboard and mouse inputs), we employ a zero-initialized MLP to project the
action embedding and incorporate it into the timestep embedding, which is used to modulate the DiT
blocks. For continuous camera poses, we leverage Projective Positional Encoding (PRoPE) [13] to
inject camera pose information into self-attention blocks. The original self-attention computation is
as follows:
                             Attn1 = Attn(R⊤ ⊙ Q, R−1 ⊙ K, V ),                                   (2)
where R represents the 3D rotary PE (RoPE) [23] for video latents and ⊙ denotes the matrix-vector
product [13]. To encode frustum relationships between cameras, we utilize an additional attention
computation,
               Attn2 = Dproj ⊙ Attn((Dproj )⊤ ⊙ Q, (Dproj )−1 ⊙ K, (Dproj )−1 ⊙ V ),                  (3)
        proj
here, D       is derived from the camera’s intrinsic and extrinsic parameters, as described in [13].
Finally, the outcome of each self-attention block is added via the zero-initialization layer as Attn1 +
zero_init(Attn2 ). This dual action representation enables both robust control across diverse scene
scales and precise spatial localization for memory retrieval.

4.2   Reconstituted Context Memory for Consistency




          (a) Full context                (b) Absolute indices               (c) Relative indices
Figure 6: Memory mechanism comparisons. The red and blue blocks represent the memory and
current predicted chunk, respectively. The number in each block represents the temporal index in
RoPE. For simplicity of illustration, each chunk only contains one frame.

Maintaining long-term geometric consistency requires recalling past chunks, ensuring content remains
unchanged when revisiting a previous location. However, naively using all past chunks as context
(Fig. 6a) is computationally intractable and redundant for long sequences. To address this, we rebuild
a memory context Ct from past chunks Ot−1 for each new chunk xt . Our approach advances beyond
prior work [29, 32] by combining both short-term temporal cues and long-range spatial references: 1)
A temporal memory (CtT ) comprises L most recent chunks {xt−L , ..., xt−1 } to ensure short-term
motion smoothness. 2) A spatial memory (CtS ) samples from non-adjacent past frames to prevent


                                                        8
geometric drift over long sequences, where CtS ⊆ Ot−1 − CtT . This sampling is guided by geometric
relevance scores that incorporate both FOV overlap and camera distance.
Once memory context is rebuilt, the challenge shifts to applying them to enforce consistency. Effec-
tively using retrieved context requires overcoming a fundamental flaw in positional encodings. With
standard RoPE (Fig.6b), the distance between the current chunk and past memory grows unbounded
over time. This growing relative distance can eventually exceed the trained interpolation range in
RoPE, causing extrapolation artifacts [23]. More critically, the growing perceived distance to these
long-past spatial memory would weaken their influence on the current prediction. To resolve this, we
propose Temporal Reframing (Fig.6c). We discard the absolute temporal indices, and dynamically
re-assign new positional encodings to all context frames, establishing a fixed, small relative distance
to the current predicted chunk, irrespective of their actual temporal gap. This operation effectively
“pulls" important past frames closer in time, ensuring they remain influential and enabling robust
extrapolation for long-term consistency. Once trained, the memory-aware model achieves precise
action control and long-term geometric consistency, preparing it for the post-training stage.

5     Model Post-Training I: Efficient Reinforcement Learning

5.1   Challenges of Reinforcement Learning for World Models

After pre-training and mid-training, world models are capable of generating visual sequences corre-
sponding to basic exploration actions. However, these initial training stages rely heavily on pixel-level
supervision from raw visual data, which only implicitly teaches the model to follow input actions and
explore the environment. This implicit learning often leads to performance plateaus in long-horizon
interaction accuracy and the persistence of visual artifacts, especially under complex combined
action conditions. RL presents a promising path to explicitly and purposefully reinforce the model’s
capabilities in handling such complex scenario.
However, applying RL to world modeling is uniquely challenging due to its inherent long-horizon, au-
toregressive, and interactive nature. Specifically, the long-horizon requirement introduces significant
computational cost for trajectory rollouts. Furthermore, the development of suitable reward functions
and the choice of an effective RL algorithm to enhance action following accuracy and visual fidelity
for world models remain largely underexplored areas.

5.2   WorldCompass Framework Design

To overcome these unique challenges, we redesign each stage of the RL process, grounding our
approach in the interactive nature of world modeling. We thereby introduce WorldCompass [27], a
novel RL framework specifically engineered for the post-training of interactive video world models
to effectively “steer” their exploration. By directly teaching the model using interaction signals, we
achieve significant enhancements in its capabilities across varying durations, different input prompts,
and complex composite actions. We refer interested readers to the respective academic papers for full
technical details.
Specifically, we redesign the each stages of the RL process, grounding them in the interactive,
long-horizon generation paradigm of world model. First, we introduce a Clip-Level Rollout strategy
for autoregressive video generation that significantly boosts both rollout efficiency and the granularity
of the reward signal, crucially mitigating exposure bias by compelling the model to rely on its own
imperfect predictions. Second, we designe Complementary Reward Functions tailored to the main
characteristics of world modeling—specifically, an action following score and a visual quality score
for the generated content—with this multi-complementary feedback effectively suppressing the
common failure mode of reward hacking. Third, we utilize the advanced RL algorithm DiffusionNFT
[35], integrated with multiple efficiency strategies, to effectively guide the autoregressive video
generation model towards the desired behavior.

6     Model Post-Training II: Context Forcing Distillation

This post-training stage introduces context forcing, a distillation method that enables real-time
performance while preserving the memory capabilities developed in previous stages. This addresses


                                                       9
the challenge of distribution mismatch between bidirectional teacher and autoregressive student
models, which has prevented effective distillation in memory-aware generative systems.

6.1   The Distribution Matching Challenge

Autoregressive world models suffer from error accumulation during long video generation, and
suffer slow denoising process. Recent methods [8, 30, 18, 3] address these challenges by distilling
a bidirectional diffusion model into a few-step autoregressive student. These techniques force the
student’s distribution pθ (x0:t ) to align with the teacher’s with a distribution matching loss [31]:

                          ∇θ LDM D = Ek (∇θ KL(pθ (x0:t )||pdata (x0:t ))),                        (4)

where the gradient can be approximated by the score difference derived from the diffusion models.
However, these standard distillation methods fail for memory-aware models due to distribution
differences between teacher and student. The bidirectional teacher access to full context (past and
future frames), while the autoregressive student model only access to past context due to causal
generation requirements. This mismatch is particularly problematic for memory-aware models, where
student model rely on sophisticated memory mechanisms. Even if a teacher is augmented with
memory, its bidirectional nature inevitably differs from the student’s causal, autoregressive process.
This means that without a meticulously designed memory context to mitigate this gap, the difference
in memory context will make their conditional distributions p(x|C) misaligned, which in turn causes
distribution matching to fail.




Figure 7: Overview of context forcing. We employ memory-augmented self-rollout and memory-
augmented bidirectional video diffusion to preserve long-term consistency, enable real-time interac-
tion, and mitigate error accumulation.


6.2   Context Forcing

We thus propose context forcing as shown in Fig. 7, which alleviates the memory context misalign-
ment between teacher and student for distillation. For the student model, we self-rollout 4 chunks
                                                           j+3
                                                            Q
conditioned on the memory context pθ (xj:j+3 |x0:j−1 ) =       pθ (xi |Ci ). To construct our teacher
                                                             i=j
model Vβ , we augment a standard bidirectional diffusion model with memory, and structure its
context by masking xj:j+3 from student’s memory context,

                        pdata (xj:j+3 |x0:j−1 ) = pβ (xj:j+3 |Cj:j+3 − xj:j+3 ),                   (5)

where Cj:j+3 denotes all context memory chunks corresponding to student’s self-rollout xj:j+3 . By
aligning the memory context with the student model, we enforce the distributions represented by the
teacher to be as close as possible to the student model, which enables more effectively distribution
matching. Through context forcing, we preserve long-term consistency in real-time generation with
4-denoising steps, and mitigate error accumulation. The context forcing approach eliminates the
distribution mismatch that typically occurs when distilling bidirectional teachers into autoregressive
students with different contextual information access patterns.


                                                      10
Algorithm 1 Context Forcing Training
Require: Number of denoising timesteps d and chunks n = 4
Require: Dataset D (encoded by 3D VAE)
Require: AR diffusion model Nθ
Require: Bidirectional diffusion model Vβf ake and V real
 1: loop
 2:    Progressively increase maximum chunk length m
 3:    Sample chunk length j ∼ Uniform(0, 1, . . . , m)
 4:    Sample context x0:j−1 ∼ D
 5:    for i = j, . . . , j + n − 1 do
 6:          Initialize xinit
                          i   ∼ N (0, I)
 7:          Reconstitute context memory Ci ⊆ {x0 , . . . , xi−1 }
 8:          Sample s ∼ Uniform(1, 2, . . . , d)
 9:          Self-rollout xi using Nθ with Ci and s denoising steps
10:     end for
11:     Align context memory C tea ← Cj:j+n−1 − xj:j+n−1
12:     Sample diffusion timestep k ∼ [0, 1]
13:     x̂j:j+n−1 ← AddNoise(xj:j+n−1 , k)
14:     Compute fake score S f ake ← Vβf ake (x̂j:j+n−1 , C tea , k)
15:     Compute real score S f ake ← V real (x̂j:j+n−1 , C tea , k)
16:     Update θ via distribution matching loss
17:     Update β via flow matching loss as in [8]
18: end loop



7     Model Inference: Play with the World

7.1   Acceleration and Engineering Optimization

While our distillation mechanism significantly reduces the number of denoising steps required for
high-quality generation, achieving real-time streaming interaction demands additional optimizations.
In this section, we describe our inference optimization pipeline that enables WorldPlay to generate
high-resolution video frames with minimal latency, meeting the stringent requirements for interactive
world simulation.
Mixed parallelism method for DiT and VAE. To fully leverage modern multi-GPU infrastructure,
we implement sequence parallelism for both the DiT backbone and the VAE decoder across 8 GPUs.
Unlike the conventional parallelism method that replicates the entire model or adapts sequence
parallelism on the temporal dimension, our parallelism method combines sequence parallelism and
attention parallelism, which partitions the tokens of each entire chunk across devices. This design
ensures that the computational workload for generating each chunk is distributed evenly, substantially
reducing per-chunk inference time while maintaining generation quality.
Streaming deployment and progressive decoding. To minimize time-to-first-frame and enable
seamless interaction, we adopt a streaming deployment architecture using NVIDIA Triton Inference
Framework. Rather than waiting for complete chunk generation and decoding, we implement a pro-
gressive multi-step VAE decoding strategy that decodes and streams frames in smaller batches. Upon
generating latent representations from the DiT, frames are progressively decoded and immediately
transmitted to the client, allowing users to observe generated content while subsequent frames are
still being processed. This streaming pipeline decouples frame generation from delivery through
asynchronous processing and frame buffering, ensuring smooth, low-latency interaction even under
varying computational loads.
Quantization and efficient attention. To further accelerate inference while preserving generation
quality, we employ a comprehensive suite of quantization strategies. Specifically, we adopt Sage
Attention [34] for optimized attention computation through mixed-precision operations, apply float
quantization to model weights and activations to reduce memory bandwidth requirements, and utilize
matrix multiplication quantization for compute-intensive linear layers. Additionally, we use KV-
cache mechanisms for attention modules to eliminate redundant computations during autoregressive
generation. These techniques collectively reduce memory footprint and computational cost while
maintaining visual fidelity, as validated in our experiments.


                                                           11
Algorithm 2 Inference with KV Cache
Require: Number of inference chunks nc
Require: Denoise timesteps {k1 , . . . , kd }
Require: Number of inference chunks nc
Require: AR diffusion model Nθ (returns KV embeddings via NθKV )
 1: Initialize model output Xθ ← []
 2: Initialize KV cache KV ← []
 3: for i = 0, . . . , nc − 1 do
 4:     Initialize xi ∼ N (0, I)
 5:     Reconstitute context memory Ci ⊆ {x0 , . . . , xi−1 }
 6:     for s = d, . . . , 1 do
 7:          if s = d and i > 1 then
 8:               Reset KV ← NθKV (Ci , 0)
 9:          end if
10:          Denoise xi ← Nθ (xi , KV, ks )
11:      end for
12:      Add output Xθ .append(xi )
13: end for
14: return Xθ

                                                                   Balloon Appears




                                          W                  W                       W              W

                                                                   Rainbow Arches
   A wide open meadow stretches to
  the horizon, covered with colourful
   wildflowers swaying gently in the
 wind. The scene feels bright and calm
         under the midday sun.

                                          W                  W                       W              W



Figure 8: Promptable events. Our method supports text-based manipulation during streaming
generation, enabling users to trigger dynamic world events through natural language commands.


7.2     Go Beyond Action Control: Text-Based Event Triggering

Beyond navigation and exploration, HY-World 1.5 supports dynamic text-based event generation
that enables users to manipulate the virtual world during streaming generation. WorldPlay supports
sophisticated text-based interactions to trigger dynamic world events and modify ongoing generation
streams in real-time. The promptable events support multiple categories of world simulation, including
object addition and removal, environmental changes (weather, lighting), dynamics (explosions), and
character behaviors (NPC actions).
As demonstrated in Fig. 8 and Fig. 1(e), users can input natural language prompts during generation
to responsively alter narrative and visual content. This enables interactive storytelling, virtual
environment manipulation, and dynamic content creation where users explore and modify virtual
worlds through natural language interfaces.


8      Model Evaluation

8.1     Main Results

Evaluation Protocol. Our evaluation assesses both short-term generation quality and long-term
geometric consistency using 600 diverse test cases from real-world videos, game recordings, and
AI-generated images.
For short-term evaluation, we use test video trajectories as input poses and compare generated frames
against ground truth using LPIPS, PSNR, SSIM for visual quality, plus Rdist and Tdist for camera
pose accuracy. For long-term consistency, we design cycle trajectories where models generate frames
along a path and return along the same route, comparing return path frames to initial pass frames to


                                                     12
                                                                                                                      Short-term (61 frames)                                                  Long-term (≥ 250 frames)
                                                             Real-time PSNR ↑ SSIM ↑ LPIPS ↓ Rdist ↓ Tdist ↓                                                                PSNR ↑ SSIM ↑ LPIPS ↓ Rdist ↓ Tdist ↓

CameraCtrl [5]                                                          ✗                  17.93                    0.569                     0.298    0.037     0.341        10.09            0.241       0.549               0.733        1.117
SEVA [36]                                                               ✗                  19.84                    0.598                     0.313    0.047     0.223        10.51            0.301       0.517               0.721        1.893
ViewCrafter [33]                                                        ✗                  19.91                    0.617                     0.327    0.029     0.543        9.32             0.277       0.661               1.573        3.051
Gen3C [22]                                                              ✗                  21.68                    0.635                     0.278    0.024     0.477        15.37            0.431       0.483               0.357        0.979
VMem [28]                                                               ✗                  19.97                    0.587                     0.316    0.048     0.219        12.77            0.335       0.542               0.748        1.547
Matrix-Game-2.0 [6]                                                     ✔                  17.26                    0.505                     0.383    0.287     0.843         9.57            0.205       0.631               2.125        2.742
GameCraft [12]                                                          ✗                  21.05                    0.639                     0.341    0.151     0.617        10.09            0.287       0.614               2.497        3.291

Ours (w/o Context Forcing)                                              ✗                  21.27                    0.669                     0.261    0.033     0.157        16.27            0.425       0.495               0.611        0.991
Ours (full)                                                             ✔                  21.92                    0.702                     0.247    0.031     0.121        18.94            0.585       0.371               0.332        0.797

                                                                                            Table 2: Quantitative comparisons.

                            VBench metrics and comparison with previous state-of-the-art methods.                           Ours
                                                                                                                            Gen3C
                                                     Dynamic Degree                                                         ViewCrafter
                                   Aesthetic Quality                         Color                                          GameCraft
                                                                                                                            Matrix-Game-2.0

                    Imaging Quality                                                         Temporal Flickering
                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                                                                             Preference Study Results
                                                                             60
                                                                                                          Spatial Relationship                                                                                               11.5% GameCraft
        Object Class
                                                                        40                                                                            Ours                           88.5%

                                                                   20
                                                                                                                                                      Ours                     78.4%                                  21.6%        Matrix-Game-2.0
 Multiple Objects                                                                                                Subject Consistency

                                                                                                                                                      Ours                            92.1%                                   7.9% ViewCrafter


       Human Action                                                                                       Overall Consistency                         Ours                   72.9%                                   27.1%         Gen3C

                                                                                                                                                      Ours          48.1%                               51.9%                      Teacher
                Motion Smoothness                                                               Temporal Style                                                                                                                      (Bidirectional)
                                                                                                                                                             0     20            40              60             80               100
                                Background Consistency     Scene             Appearance Style                                                                                   Preference Rate (%)

                                      (a) VBench evaluation.                                                                                                                (b) Human evaluation.
Figure 9: Comprehensive evaluation. (a) VBench quantitative benchmarking. (b) Human evaluation
results.


enforce revisiting. This directly measures geometric coherence when revisiting locations, essential
for interactive experiences.
We compare against two baseline groups: (1) Action-controlled diffusion models without memory
mechanisms: CameraCtrl [5], SEVA [36], ViewCrafter [33], Matrix-Game 2.0 [6], GameCraft [12];
(2) Models with memory mechanisms: Gen3C [22], VMem [14].
Quantitative Performance Analysis. Tab. 2 shows WorldPlay’s superior performance across both
short-term generation quality and long-term geometric consistency. In short-term regimes, our
approach achieves exceptional visual fidelity with competitive control accuracy. The gap widens in
long-term scenarios where control accuracy degrades across baselines due to error accumulation.
WorldPlay maintains superior stability while other methods show substantial degradation.
Fig. 9a further gives evaluation results on VBench, and Fig. 9b shows human evaluation results.
Visual Comparisons. We present qualitative comparisons against baseline methods in Fig. 10. The
explicit 3D cache employed in Gen3C [22] exhibits high sensitivity to the quality of intermediate
outputs and is constrained by the accuracy of depth estimation. Matrix-Game-2.0 [6] and Game-
Craft [12] are unable to support free exploration, primarily due to their lack of dedicated memory
mechanisms. In contrast, our reconstituted context memory ensures long-term consistency through
a more robust implicit prior, thereby achieving superior scene generalizability. Additionally, other
methods fail to generalize effectively to third-person scenarios—this shortcoming not only hinders the
control of agents within the scene but also imposes significant limitations on their overall applicability.
On the other hand, WorldPlay successfully extends its efficacy to such third-person scenarios while
maintaining high visual fidelity and long-term geometric consistency.
Feedback Alignment with Reinforcement Learning. Moreover, the effectiveness of the WorldCom-
pass RL framework is visualized in Fig. 11. The pipeline without RL training exhibits misalignment
with the interaction signal and visual degradation when required to handle complex actions. In con-


                                                                                                                                                      13
                           Ours


                                         W       A           D           D           S           S
                                                                             D           S
                           Gen3C
     W
   A S D                                 W       A           D           D           S           S

                           Ours




                           GameCraft

     W
   A S D

                           Ours


                                         D       D           D           A           A           A

                           GameCraft

     W
   A S D                                 D       D           D           A           A           A

                           Ours


                                                             W           S

                           Matrix-Game 2.0
     W
   A S D                                                     W           S

                           Ours


                                         W       W           D           D           D           D

                           Matrix-Game 2.0
     W
   A S D                                 W       W           D           D           D           D



Figure 10: Qualitative comparisons with existing methods. WorldPlay achieves the state-of-the-art
long-term consistency (shown in red boxes) and visual quality across diverse scenes.




Figure 11: Qualitative comparisons with or without the WorldCompass RL stage. The incorpo-
ration of WorldCompass RL training significantly improves the model’s ability to follow complex
actions and enhances visual quality.


trast, the model after RL post-training demonstrates significantly improved action following accuracy
and maintains higher visual fidelity. These substantial improvements underscore the fundamental
value of post-training for world models and highlight the potential of our robust and efficient World-
Compass RL framework to elevate the core capabilities of world models in complex, long-horizon
interactive scenarios.
Ablation Studies. Detailed analysis on Action Representation Design, Memory Design, and Con-
text Forcing Design, and Reinforcement Learning Design can be found in WorldPlay [24] and
WorldCompass [27].


                                                     14
                                                  Point Cloud




                                                                                              S




                               S                                                              S




                                                                                              W




                               A                                                              W



                Figure 12: 3D reconstruction results with WorldPlay and WorldMirror.

      Promptable Event
                                                   Sky Darkens                Flame Erupts




                                       S               S            S            S            S

                                                   Traveler Walks             Dog Roams




                                       W              W             W           W             W



      Video Continuation




                   Figure 13: Visualization of promptable event and video continuation.


8.2   Applications and More Results

Application on 3D Scene Reconstruction. Our reconstituted context memory ensures exceptional
long-term geometric consistency, enabling seamless integration with 3D reconstruction systems
for high-quality point clouds and scene representations. As shown in Fig. 12, the model generates
consistent multi-view observations serving as excellent input for reconstruction pipelines like World-
Mirror [19]. Geometric coherence during generation significantly reduces artifacts and improves
reconstruction quality compared to inconsistent video approaches.
Application on Dynamic Event Manipulation. WorldPlay supports sophisticated text-based interac-
tions to trigger dynamic world events and modify ongoing generation streams in real-time. As shown
in the upper part of Fig. 13, we can change the weather and trigger a fire eruption, or introduce new
objects and characters. Through promptable events, we can generate various complex and uncommon
scenarios, which can benefit agent learning by enabling agents to handle these unexpected situations.
Application on Video Continuation. As shown at the bottom of Fig. 13, WorldPlay can generate
follow-up content that remains highly consistent with a given initial video clip in terms of motion,
appearance, and lighting. This enables stable video continuation, effectively extending the original


                                                              15
                               Figure 14: More qualitative results.


video while preserving spatial-temporal consistency and content coherence, which opens up new
possibilities in creative video generation and virtual environment construction.
More Visualization. Fig. 14 shows more results of our model. Fig. 15 presents long video generation
results with geometric consistency.

9   Conclusion
This work presents a comprehensive framework HY-World 1.5 for interactive world modeling that
achieves both real-time latency and geometric consistency. HY-World 1.5 draws power from our
autoregressive generation model WorldPlay and reinforcement learning method WorldCompass. It
empowers users to customize unique worlds from a single image or text prompt. While focused
on navigation control, its architecture has shown potential for richer interaction, like dynamic and
text-triggered events. By providing a systematic framework for control, memory, and distillation,
the proposed method marks a critical step toward creating consistent and interactive virtual worlds.
Extending it to generate longer videos with multi-agent interaction and complex physical dynamics
would be a fruitful future direction.


                                                    16
Figure 15: Long video generation.




                   17
Contributors
• Project Sponsors: Jie Jiang, Linus, Yuhong Liu, Di Wang, Peng Chen
• Project Leaders: Chunchao Guo, Tengfei Wang
• Core Contributors: Haiyu Zhang, Wenqiang Sun, Haoyuan Wang, Zehan Wang, Junta Wu,
  Zhenwei Wang, Xuhui Zuo, Chenjie Cao
• Contributors (Listed alphabetically): Coopers Li, Guojian Xiao, Hao Zhang, Jiaxin Lin, Jianchen
  Zhu, Jie Xiao, Lei Wang, Lifu Wang, Lin Niu, Minghui Chen, Peng He, Runzhou Wu, Sicong
  Liu, Tianyu Huang, Wangchen Qin, Wencong Lin, Xiang Yuan, Xinyang Li, Yifu Sun, Yifei Tang,
  Yihang Lian, Yonghao Tan, Zhan Li




                                                   18
References
 [1] Haoxuan Che, Xuanhua He, Quande Liu, Cheng Jin, and Hao Chen. Gamegen-x: Interactive open-world
     game video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00769, 2024.

 [2] Boyuan Chen, Diego Martí Monsó, Yilun Du, Max Simchowitz, Russ Tedrake, and Vincent Sitzmann.
     Diffusion forcing: Next-token prediction meets full-sequence diffusion. Advances in Neural Information
     Processing Systems, 37:24081–24125, 2024.

 [3] Justin Cui, Jie Wu, Ming Li, Tao Yang, Xiaojie Li, Rui Wang, Andrew Bai, Yuanhao Ban, and Cho-Jui Hsieh.
     Self-forcing++: Towards minute-scale high-quality video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.02283,
     2025.

 [4] Etched Decart. Oasis: A universe in a transformer. https://oasis-model.github.io/, 2024.

 [5] Hao He, Yinghao Xu, Yuwei Guo, Gordon Wetzstein, Bo Dai, Hongsheng Li, and Ceyuan Yang. Cameractrl:
     Enabling camera control for text-to-video generation. In ICLR, 2025.

 [6] Xianglong He, Chunli Peng, Zexiang Liu, Boyang Wang, Yifan Zhang, Qi Cui, Fei Kang, Biao Jiang,
     Mengyin An, Yangyang Ren, et al. Matrix-game 2.0: An open-source, real-time, and streaming interactive
     world model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.13009, 2025.

 [7] Jiahui Huang, Qunjie Zhou, Hesam Rabeti, Aleksandr Korovko, Huan Ling, Xuanchi Ren, Tianchang Shen,
     Jun Gao, Dmitry Slepichev, Chen-Hsuan Lin, et al. Vipe: Video pose engine for 3d geometric perception.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.10934, 2025.

 [8] Xun Huang, Zhengqi Li, Guande He, Mingyuan Zhou, and Eli Shechtman. Self forcing: Bridging the
     train-test gap in autoregressive video diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08009, 2025.

 [9] Team HunyuanWorld. Hunyuanworld 1.0: Generating immersive, explorable, and interactive 3d worlds
     from words or pixels. arXiv preprint, 2025.

[10] Bernhard Kerbl, Georgios Kopanas, Thomas Leimkühler, and George Drettakis. 3d gaussian splatting for
     real-time radiance field rendering. ACM Trans. Graph., 42(4):139–1, 2023.

[11] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding variational bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114,
     2013.

[12] Jiaqi Li, Junshu Tang, Zhiyong Xu, Longhuang Wu, Yuan Zhou, Shuai Shao, Tianbao Yu, Zhiguo Cao, and
     Qinglin Lu. Hunyuan-gamecraft: High-dynamic interactive game video generation with hybrid history
     condition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.17201, 2025.

[13] Ruilong Li, Brent Yi, Junchen Liu, Hang Gao, Yi Ma, and Angjoo Kanazawa. Cameras as relative
     positional encoding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.10496, 2025.

[14] Runjia Li, Philip Torr, Andrea Vedaldi, and Tomas Jakab. Vmem: Consistent interactive video scene
     generation with surfel-indexed view memory. In ICCV, 2025.

[15] Zhen Li, Chuanhao Li, Xiaofeng Mao, Shaoheng Lin, Ming Li, Shitian Zhao, Zhaopan Xu, Xinyue Li,
     Yukang Feng, Jianwen Sun, et al. Sekai: A video dataset towards world exploration. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2506.15675, 2025.

[16] Lu Ling, Yichen Sheng, Zhi Tu, Wentian Zhao, Cheng Xin, Kun Wan, Lantao Yu, Qianyu Guo, Zixun Yu,
     Yawen Lu, et al. Dl3dv-10k: A large-scale scene dataset for deep learning-based 3d vision. In CVPR,
     pages 22160–22169, 2024.

[17] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for
     generative modeling. In ICLR, 2023.

[18] Kunhao Liu, Wenbo Hu, Jiale Xu, Ying Shan, and Shijian Lu. Rolling forcing: Autoregressive long video
     diffusion in real time. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.25161, 2025.

[19] Yifan Liu, Zhiyuan Min, Zhenwei Wang, Junta Wu, Tengfei Wang, Yixuan Yuan, Yawei Luo, and
     Chunchao Guo. Worldmirror: Universal 3d world reconstruction with any-prior prompting. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2510.10726, 2025.


                                                         19
[20] Jack Parker-Holder, Philip Ball, Jake Bruce, Vibhavari Dasagi, Kristian Holsheimer, Christos Kaplanis,
     Alexandre Moufarek, Guy Scully, Jeremy Shar, Jimmy Shi, Stephen Spencer, Jessica Yung, Michael
     Dennis, Sultan Kenjeyev, Shangbang Long, Vlad Mnih, Harris Chan, Maxime Gazeau, Bonnie Li, Fabio
     Pardo, Luyu Wang, Lei Zhang, Frederic Besse, Tim Harley, Anna Mitenkova, Jane Wang, Jeff Clune,
     Demis Hassabis, Raia Hadsell, Adrian Bolton, Satinder Singh, and Tim Rocktäschel. Genie 2: A large-scale
     foundation world model. 2024.

[21] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In ICCV, pages 4195–4205,
     2023.

[22] Xuanchi Ren, Tianchang Shen, Jiahui Huang, Huan Ling, Yifan Lu, Merlin Nimier-David, Thomas Müller,
     Alexander Keller, Sanja Fidler, and Jun Gao. Gen3c: 3d-informed world-consistent video generation with
     precise camera control. In CVPR, pages 6121–6132, 2025.

[23] Jianlin Su, Murtadha Ahmed, Yu Lu, Shengfeng Pan, Wen Bo, and Yunfeng Liu. Roformer: Enhanced
     transformer with rotary position embedding. Neurocomputing, 568:127063, 2024.
[24] Wenqiang Sun, Haiyu Zhang, Haoyuan Wang, Junta Wu, Zehan Wang, Zhenwei Wang, Yunhong Wang,
     Jun Zhang, Tengfei Wang, and Chunchao Guo. Worldplay: Towards long-term geometric consistency for
     real-time interactive world model. arXiv preprint, 2025.
[25] Tencent Hunyuan Foundation Model Team. Hunyuanvideo 1.5 technical report, 2025.

[26] Team Wan, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, Chen-Wei Xie, Di Chen, Feiwu Yu, Haiming
     Zhao, Jianxiao Yang, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2503.20314, 2025.

[27] Zehan Wang, Tengfei Wang, Haiyu Zhang, Wenqiang Sun, Junta Wu, Haoyuan Wang, Zhenwei Wang,
     Hengshuang Zhao, Chunchao Guo, and Zhou Zhao. Worldcompass: Reinforcement learning for long-
     horizon world models. 2025.
[28] Zhouxia Wang, Ziyang Yuan, Xintao Wang, Yaowei Li, Tianshui Chen, Menghan Xia, Ping Luo, and Ying
     Shan. Motionctrl: A unified and flexible motion controller for video generation. In ACM SIGGRAPH,
     pages 1–11, 2024.
[29] Zeqi Xiao, Yushi Lan, Yifan Zhou, Wenqi Ouyang, Shuai Yang, Yanhong Zeng, and Xingang Pan.
     Worldmem: Long-term consistent world simulation with memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12369, 2025.

[30] Shuai Yang, Wei Huang, Ruihang Chu, Yicheng Xiao, Yuyang Zhao, Xianbang Wang, Muyang Li, Enze
     Xie, Yingcong Chen, Yao Lu, et al. Longlive: Real-time interactive long video generation. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2509.22622, 2025.

[31] Tianwei Yin, Michaël Gharbi, Taesung Park, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, Fredo Durand, and Bill
     Freeman. Improved distribution matching distillation for fast image synthesis. Advances in neural
     information processing systems, 37:47455–47487, 2024.

[32] Jiwen Yu, Jianhong Bai, Yiran Qin, Quande Liu, Xintao Wang, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, and Xihui Liu.
     Context as memory: Scene-consistent interactive long video generation with memory retrieval. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2506.03141, 2025.

[33] Wangbo Yu, Jinbo Xing, Li Yuan, Wenbo Hu, Xiaoyu Li, Zhipeng Huang, Xiangjun Gao, Tien-Tsin Wong,
     Ying Shan, and Yonghong Tian. Viewcrafter: Taming video diffusion models for high-fidelity novel view
     synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.02048, 2024.

[34] Jintao Zhang, Jia Wei, Pengle Zhang, Jun Zhu, and Jianfei Chen. Sageattention: Accurate 8-bit attention
     for plug-and-play inference acceleration. In ICLR, 2025.

[35] Kaiwen Zheng, Huayu Chen, Haotian Ye, Haoxiang Wang, Qinsheng Zhang, Kai Jiang, Hang Su, Stefano
     Ermon, Jun Zhu, and Ming-Yu Liu. Diffusionnft: Online diffusion reinforcement with forward process.
     2025.

[36] Jensen Zhou, Hang Gao, Vikram Voleti, Aaryaman Vasishta, Chun-Han Yao, Mark Boss, Philip Torr,
     Christian Rupprecht, and Varun Jampani. Stable virtual camera: Generative view synthesis with diffusion
     models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14489, 2025.




                                                         20
